README.md, before:

# TIGERs Mannheim AutoReferee

Homepage: https://www.tigers-mannheim.de  
Mail: info@tigers-mannheim.de

This is the AutoReferee implementation of TIGERs Mannheim. It is based on Sumatra, our AI framework.
We use Gradle for building the application and IntelliJ as the primary IDE.
All dependencies will be downloaded automatically, so you need an internet connection for the build.

## System Requirements
 * Java JDK (recent LTS version, exact required version can be
  found [here](buildSrc/src/main/groovy/sumatra.java.gradle))
 * Internet connection
 * no limitations on OS known

## Build
First, make sure you have cloned the GIT repository. The ZIP-file from GitHub does not work, as the build relies on Git tags.

Run `./build.sh` or `./build.bat`, depending on your system platform.

## Run
Run `./run.sh` or `run.bat`, depending on your system platform.

You can pass `-h` to get the available arguments.

You may be able to run it through docker as well:

```shell
docker run --net host  -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix -e DISPLAY=unix$DISPLAY tigersmannheim/auto-referee-vnc
```

## IntelliJ
IntelliJ reads the Gradle configuration and can use Gradle to perform the build.
Make sure to configure Gradle for build and tests under Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle.

# Usage

## GUI
The GUI is divided into different views that can be arranged dynamically. If a view is not shown, it can be added
from the menu (Views).

### AutoReferee view
In the **AutoReferee** view, you can set the mode of the autoRef to one of:
 * Off: The autoRef is completely off
 * Passive: The autoRef will detect events and show it in the Game Log, but it will not send anything to the game-controller
 * Active: The autoRef will detect events and will also send them to the game-controller

This view also allows to deactivate certain detectors.

### Game Log View
The **Game Log** view displays all events that occurred and have an impact on the behavior of the autoRef. The checkboxes below the table can be used to toggle different event types on or off.

### Ball Speed View
The **Ball Speed** view displays the velocity of the ball on the field. The slider component on the right can be used to alter the time window of the chart. If the **Pause when not RUNNING** checkbox is ticked the chart will automatically pause if the game is not in the RUNNING gamestate. This pause can be overridden by using the Pause/Resume buttons. Please note that the chart will not automatically resume after it has been manually paused by the user if the gamestate transitions back to RUNNING.

The chart will show three lines:
 * Maximum ball speed: The ball speed limit, defined by the rules.
 * initial ball speed: The estimated initial ball speed (kick speed) based on the ball trajectory. It gets more accurate over time.
 * ball speed: The current estimated ball speed

## Configuration
All configuration options are available via the **Cfg** tab. The **Cfg** tab itself contains multiple tabs to modify parameters of different parts of the application. You can then make the necessary modifications and **Apply** them. To make the changes persistent, press **Save** to write them to disk. Press **Reload** to reread all currently applied values.

### Vision port
The application will try to receive vision frames from **224.5.23.2:10006** by default.
You can change the default address and port in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

## Referee port
The application will try to receive referee messages from **224.5.23.1:10003** by default.
You can change the default address and port in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

### AutoRef detectors
The behavior of the autoRef can be altered through the **autoreferee** config section. It contains parameters for the
detectors.

### Rule constraints and geometry
Parameters defined by the rules can be found under **ruleConst**. 

Default geometry parameters are read from [config/geometry/DIV_A.txt](config/geometry/DIV_A.txt).
The file that is read can be changed in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

## Activating the build-in ssl-game-controller
The autoRef ships with the official ssl-game-controller. To activate it, change `gameController` to true in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).
The autoRef will internally launch the game-controller and connect to its websocket API
to be able to send some basic commands through the **Ref** view.
This view also contains a button to launch the full game-controller UI.

Commit message:

Update auto-referee-vnc docker image

README.md, after:

# TIGERs Mannheim AutoReferee

Homepage: https://www.tigers-mannheim.de  
Mail: info@tigers-mannheim.de

This is the AutoReferee implementation of TIGERs Mannheim. It is based on Sumatra, our AI framework.
We use Gradle for building the application and IntelliJ as the primary IDE.
All dependencies will be downloaded automatically, so you need an internet connection for the build.

## System Requirements
 * Java JDK (recent LTS version, exact required version can be
  found [here](buildSrc/src/main/groovy/sumatra.java.gradle))
 * Internet connection
 * no limitations on OS known

## Build
First, make sure you have cloned the GIT repository. The ZIP-file from GitHub does not work, as the build relies on Git tags.

Run `./build.sh` or `./build.bat`, depending on your system platform.

## Run
Run `./run.sh` or `run.bat`, depending on your system platform.

You can pass `-h` to get the available arguments.

You may be able to run it through docker as well. There are two docker images available:
 * `tigersmannheim/auto-referee` - The autoReferee without GUI
 * `tigersmannheim/auto-referee-vnc` - The autoReferee with GUI

To run the autoReferee with GUI, you can use the following command:

```shell
docker run --net host  -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix -e DISPLAY=unix$DISPLAY tigersmannheim/auto-referee-vnc
```

Note, that this will only work on Linux systems with an X server running.
Alternatively, you can use a VNC client to connect to the container.

The headless version can be run with the following command:

```shell
docker run --net host tigersmannheim/auto-referee
```

## IntelliJ
IntelliJ reads the Gradle configuration and can use Gradle to perform the build.
Make sure to configure Gradle for build and tests under Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Gradle.

# Usage

## GUI
The GUI is divided into different views that can be arranged dynamically. If a view is not shown, it can be added
from the menu (Views).

### AutoReferee view
In the **AutoReferee** view, you can set the mode of the autoRef to one of:
 * Off: The autoRef is completely off
 * Passive: The autoRef will detect events and show it in the Game Log, but it will not send anything to the game-controller
 * Active: The autoRef will detect events and will also send them to the game-controller

This view also allows to deactivate certain detectors.

### Game Log View
The **Game Log** view displays all events that occurred and have an impact on the behavior of the autoRef. The checkboxes below the table can be used to toggle different event types on or off.

### Ball Speed View
The **Ball Speed** view displays the velocity of the ball on the field. The slider component on the right can be used to alter the time window of the chart. If the **Pause when not RUNNING** checkbox is ticked the chart will automatically pause if the game is not in the RUNNING gamestate. This pause can be overridden by using the Pause/Resume buttons. Please note that the chart will not automatically resume after it has been manually paused by the user if the gamestate transitions back to RUNNING.

The chart will show three lines:
 * Maximum ball speed: The ball speed limit, defined by the rules.
 * initial ball speed: The estimated initial ball speed (kick speed) based on the ball trajectory. It gets more accurate over time.
 * ball speed: The current estimated ball speed

## Configuration
All configuration options are available via the **Cfg** tab. The **Cfg** tab itself contains multiple tabs to modify parameters of different parts of the application. You can then make the necessary modifications and **Apply** them. To make the changes persistent, press **Save** to write them to disk. Press **Reload** to reread all currently applied values.

### Vision port
The application will try to receive vision frames from **224.5.23.2:10006** by default.
You can change the default address and port in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

## Referee port
The application will try to receive referee messages from **224.5.23.1:10003** by default.
You can change the default address and port in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

### AutoRef detectors
The behavior of the autoRef can be altered through the **autoreferee** config section. It contains parameters for the
detectors.

### Rule constraints and geometry
Parameters defined by the rules can be found under **ruleConst**. 

Default geometry parameters are read from [config/geometry/DIV_A.txt](config/geometry/DIV_A.txt).
The file that is read can be changed in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).

## Activating the build-in ssl-game-controller
The autoRef ships with the official ssl-game-controller. To activate it, change `gameController` to true in [config/moduli/moduli.xml](config/moduli/moduli.xml).
The autoRef will internally launch the game-controller and connect to its websocket API
to be able to send some basic commands through the **Ref** view.
This view also contains a button to launch the full game-controller UI.
